The year of 1998 was announced by UNESCO the Year of Pushkin. In this way the mankind paid tribute
to the genius of the Russian literature in commemoration of his 200th anniversary,
which was celebrated world wide in June 1999.
A. Pushkin was a Russian poet, novelist, dramatist, and short-story writer.
He is considered his country’s greatest poet and the founder of modern Russian literature.
He is the author of «Yevgeny Onegin», «little Tragedies», «The Queen of Spades»,
«Boris Godunov» and wonderful verses and fairy tales.
We have grown up with his learned cat, who walked round and round the oak-tree,
singing songs as he circled right, and telling tales as he circled left.
We were fond of his exiled Prince, who was turned into a bumble-bee so that
he could fly to his father’s court and sting his wicked aunt on the nose.
Later we experienced Onegin’s boredom, Tatiana’s unrequited love, Godunov’s uneasy conscience,
Herman’s tension at the gaming table, Saliere’s jealousy of Mozart,
and heard the dead steps of the Stone Guest and the thundering hooves of the Bronze Horseman.
His life was no less exciting than his works. He was born in Moscow on the 6th of June 1799.
His father came of an old boyar family. His mother was a granddaughter of Abram Hannibal,
who, according to family tradition, was an Abyssinian princeling bought as a slave at
Constantinople (Istanbul) and adopted by Peter the Great and became his comrade in arms.
Pushkin immortalized him in an unfinished historical novel, Arap Petra Velikogo (The Negro of Peter
 the Great).
Like many aristocratic families in early 19th century Russia,
Pushkin’s parents adopted French culture. Alexander and his brother and sister learned to talk and
to read in French. The children were left much to the care of their maternal grandmother,
who told Alexander stories of his ancestors in Russian. From his old nurse Arina Rodionovna
Yakovleva, a freed serf, he heard Russian folktales.
During summers at his grandmother’s estate near Moscow he talked to the peasants and spent hours
alone, living in the dream world of an imaginative child.
He read a lot and gained stimulus from the literary guests who came to the house.
